# Evaluating tuning strategies for random forest hyperparameters with regards to prediction performance of clinical prediction models and computational time

## What to run?

Files in the study 1 folder constitute the research code. .R scripts (as opposed to .Rmd files) are necessary as they are loaded by the .Rmd files. Data is loaded within the .Rmd files. If wanting to fully reproduce the entire study, run Study1_pilot.Rmd (but be aware that this can take up to 19 hours), then ResearchReport.Rmd. Data generated by Study1_pilot.Rmd (i.e., information on how each tuning procedure performed on each dataset, which is the data used to generate tables and figures in the study) is saved in pilot.RData and loaded in ResearchReport.Rmd, so one may choose to run only ResearchReport.Rmd.

## Folder structure

├── Proposal

    ├── Fig1.Rmd - code to generate the figure in the proposal
    
    ├── Thesis.bib - bibliography file for the proposal
    
    ├── ThesisProposal_JudithNeve_MSBBSS.pdf - rendered version of the proposal
    
    ├── ThesisProposal_JudithNeve_MSBBSS.tex - LaTeX code for the proposal
    
    ├── figure1.jpg - image generated by Fig1.Rmd
    
├── Protocol

    ├── Protocol figures - folder containing necessary images for rendering the other documents
    
    ├── Protocol_presentation.pdf - rendered version of a presentation given at the Julius Centrum's method meeting on Nov. 14, 2022
    
    ├── Simulation_protocol.pdf - rendered version of the simulation protocol (acting as a pre-registration)
    
    ├── protocol_presentation.tex - LaTeX code for the presentation given at the Julius Centrum's method meeting on Nov. 14, 2022
    
    ├── simulation_protocol.tex - LaTeX code for the simulation protocol (acting as a pre-registration)
    
├── Study 1

    ├── Data - folder containing simulated data
    
        ├── betas.RData - contains the regression coefficients as computed by chunks 1-5 of Study1_pilot.Rmd (approx. 3 hours' runtime)
        
        ├── pilot.RData - contains the R environment obtained by running Study1_pilot.Rmd (approx. 19 hours' runtime) - NOTE: chunks 4 and 5 can be skipped to reduce to 16 hours.
        
        ├── scenarios.RData - contains the full information on scenarios (following sample size calculations) as computed by chunks 1-4 of Study1_pilot.Rmd (approx. 10 minutes' runtime)
    
    ├── DataSimFunctions.R - file containing functions to generate data
    
    ├── GenerateBetas_RR.R - file containing functions to generate regression coefficients
    
    ├── PerformanceMetrics.R - file containing functions to evaluate predictive performance
    
    ├── ResearchReport.Rmd - MARKUP MANUSCRIPT - R markdown code to generate a report on preliminary results for study 1
    
    ├── ResearchReport.pdf - MARKUP MANUSCRIPT - rendered version of the report on preliminary results for study 1 - uses data generated by Study1_pilot.Rmd
    
    ├── Study1_pilot.Rmd - generates data on tuning procedures used in ResearchReport.Rmd (approx. 19 hours' runtime) - NOTE: chunks 4 and 5 can be skipped to reduce to 16 hours.
    
    ├── Thesis.bib - bibliography file used for the report
    
    ├── TuningFunctions.R - file containing functions to tune random forests
    
    ├── sessionInfo.R - file generating the sessionInfo.txt file
    
    ├── sessionInfo.txt - file containing information regarding system, R, and package versions used

├── .gitignore - defines files that do not need tracking

├── Thesis.Rproj - project that contains all files


Note: folders for study 2 and study 3 will be added when those studies begin.
